Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee.
We in Tennessee and in the Tennessee delegation are very proud of some of our distinguished
Tennessee insuroccupied half places in the federal government here in Washington.
I'm sure that you're familiar with all of these gentlemen.
For instance, Bill Henry, who comes from Memphis, is the chairman of the Federal Communications
Commission.
It's your swedler who used to be with the Tennessee Valley Authority and the lawyer
in Tennessee is chairman of the Federal Power Commission.
But a man that I have been more closely associated with and I expect that over Tennessee is better
known for many many reasons than most anyone else is.
None other than Paul Rand Dixon, who is the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission.
We are very glad to have you around on our program today and to have you stick to the
listeners over the station and to your many friends in Tennessee.
Nice to be here with you, Senator.
It's always a pleasure to be around you.
May I say by way of background that Rand comes up a very fine family at Davidson County
in Nashville.
I remember that he used to be the old Southern half back on the Vanderbilt football team
for four years.
Rand, I think that we used to, this Vanderbilt football team used to play Tennessee
once in a while.
Didn't you and you were over there?
I went to Nashville many times.
I didn't come home happy very often.
Well, as I remember, the back of those days you used to win one game once in a while.
I was on one team at the Big Vanderbilt in fact.
Big Vanderbilt.
A big Tennessee.
I think it was in 1935.
It's about the first time in ten years we'd beaten Tennessee.
Well, of course I was just a few years after I had been at the University of Tennessee.
But I remember I used to go back to all the Tennessee Vanderbilt games and you were a great
heart back.
It was a great joy to watch you play but I was always glad to see you come out on the,
usually come out on the losing side.
Anyway, friends, Randix has always taken an active part in Tennessee affairs here in
Washington.
Of course he goes back to Tennessee quite often.
He's been down many times with me.
He was there for two years, the president of the Tennessee State Society here in the
nation's capital and I think was one of the most successful presidents we ever had.
And then along about six or seven years ago I got to be chairman of the Antitrust and
Monopoly subcommittee.
This is committee in which we investigated high price of drugs and worked out of drug
act and what he worked on other Monopoly and antitrust legislation carry on investigations
of the high cost of steel, bread and many other things.
So I was looking around for the very best man I could get to be the chief counsel for
that and staff director of that committee.
I was finally able to persuade Rand to come and be our chief counsel and staff director
which he was before he went down to be chairman of the Federal Trade Commission.
Rand, how'd you ever get to Washington in the first place?
I remember when I graduated from Vanderbilt, Josh Cody took me down to Florida with him as
an assistant football coach.
I finished my long day out and as soon as I graduated I came looking for a job really
and when I got here I met a great tennis player and a great friend of yours, Judge
Yuan Davis who was chairman of the Federal Trade Commission and he hired me and so I started
with God.
Yes, I remember Judge Yuan Davis, he's a great tennis see-on.
He was a congressman from one of the middle districts of Tennessee for many many years
and was made by chairman of the Federal Trade Commission.
When was it you joined the Federal Trade Commission around?
It was in July 1938.
And I think you had a hitch in maybe for him.
I mean, it's not short of four years in the Navy and four years with you, I bent the
Federal Trade Commission.
Well some people may not understand the great importance of the Federal Trade Commission
and the business and to the consumers.
I tell us generally about the work of the Federal Trade Commission.
I don't know of any of these.
How many members are of the Commission?
Well, it's a five-man commission and no more than three can be a member of one political
party.
The terms are for seven years.
I suppose you remember one of the political parties that I ran.
I'm a good strong downfall.
Yes, I do.
And of course you know this agency was formed in 1914, created 1914.
And it was created to help preserve the free enterprise system.
They followed through with the old chairman act that was passed in 1890.
By the time 1914 had come I think Congress had learned by that time that many of the
problems that ultimately resulted in chairman act actions or causes of action should be dealt
with in the beginning.
And so they created the Federal Trade.
Otherwise the chairman act which was passed in 1890 was during the time of the Greg Rubber
Ballons and the big trust and so forth and was for the purpose of trying to break up
monopolies and cartels after they've been formed.
That's quite a problem once it's happened.
And then the idea of the Federal Trade Commission act among other things was to try to prevent
these monopolies and cartels from getting formed in first place.
The things that lead to them, I see, in the Incipient Institute.
I remember when I was on the House Judiciary Committee way back in the 40s that during
Davis used to come up every year in urge that a loophole in the Clayton Act be which
the Federal Trade Commission and ministers be plugged.
And that is that corporations could join together by buying the assets of one another but
they couldn't join together by buying the capital stock.
I mean they could buy the stock but they couldn't start the could buy the assets.
So that one corporation was by the assets of another and nothing would ever happen.
And I worked with you and we finally got the so-called Solar Chief Oliver Bill Pass which
plugged that loophole in 1950.
That's one of the laws that you administer.
Yes, yes, yes, sir.
They're tough for them to deal with because these are mixed years as you know more than anybody
else.
They're mixed questions of fact, law, economics, and everything.
You know what's interesting about that law?
All the time and the effort that you in Congressmen's cell have put into the passage of this
amendment.
It's taken until just this past this year practically before we really fully understand
it because with the Browns you decision the Supreme Court really under wrote the legislative
history of that act.
I've never seen a decision that quite was this specific in adopting the philosophy of the
legislators in its past.
Well then it's finally been pretty well defined by the court system what it means and that
is that one corporation can require the capital stock or assets of another if it's going
to suppress competition or tend to create them enough.
And it may substantially lessen or tend to create them anopoly.
But this doesn't mean it's a misunderstood statute as you probably will know.
Many people think this says no one can merge and that certainly is not the law because many
mergers are desirable.
That's right.
Those tight mergers that have this effect that you spoke of that must be eliminated.
By administering a section seven of the Clayton Mac which is the merger provision is a very
small part of your remarkable work with the Federal Trade Commission.
And I think all businessmen and the chambers of commerce know that you brought new life
and new vigor and a new outlook to the work of the Federal Trade Commission and trying
to help small business.
Would you tell us something about that right?
Well I've been back to those four years that I spent with years your council on your
animal and anopolis subcommittee.
I remember the many instances of letters that you would get and would all be referred to
you by other senators asking the question that well the Federal Trade Commission or the
Department of Justice and the Trust Section is preceded against my constituent.
Now I'm doing no more than the other competitors are doing.
Why can't they proceed against all of them instead of me or us let me alone or us get
them all?
This taught me a very good lesson senator because traditionally for some 40 some ideas the
commission had preceded case by case hoping that once it was completely litigated and
approved by the high court that if someone else was doing the same thing they would voluntarily
stop.
This hasn't quite worked out but it took a long time to go through all the courts and
all the other ones would be busted by that.
That's correct so when I went there I thought that maybe the time had come for the commission
to try to use new innovations to try to move against a substantial group against the
practice instead of the one violated if they were all doing it for whatever reason caused
it.
We should try to do it as equitable as possible now.
So I think that we've brought one other innovation there that is if you remember when the
very sponsor such as President Wilson in 1912 or 1314 when he sponsored the Federal Trade
Commission he had many things to say among which was that there should be created some
agency where the businessman could come to and seek some kind of guidance and advise
as if possible before he found himself in the throws of litigation and starting last
July and just a little over a year ago we've offered this service to every American businessman
that comes within our statutory obligations to come and if we can we'll give them this
advice.
I mean see if I understand if a businessman wants to start some new kind of practice and also
you have control over the end of the property advertising, not for false advertisement and
if they rather than take a chance on doing something you offer them the service of coming
and giving them an opinion which you are bad by which is binding upon us we will be we
will not change our mind unless we give them an opportunity to change this.
Well I think that's very fun and should the service and should be highly employed as
the business community cooperate with you in this round.
So until they have been very accepted to this in fact the Chamber Commerce when they
recently met here and the nation's capital has to resolution endorsing this effort on
our part and as long as we can do this and do it well I think that will be better for
our system because if a man as you say is going to spend millions of dollars in advertising
campaign he shouldn't have to take a risk if there's some way it can be resolved.
Any questions before?
Well I'm Rand Urum you also administer the Robinson Prepman Act which is very important
for smaller business.
The end is that.
That part of the Robinson Pärtman Act that amended the Clayton Act which is commonly
the price discrimination, the discrimination section we exclusively practically enforce
this law because justice has pretty well left this to us.
Well your attitude in the Federal Trade Commission is to have good healthy competition but not
to have one fellow doing something improper to his competition.
We hold ourselves sent out as the servant of business.
A fair business, every businessman wants to be fair and we want to help them to eliminate
those unfair practices and destroy and hinder good competition.
We also want to do our dead level best for the consumer.
You know we have these four consumers that we enforce.
We'll for a textile and infamible fabric act.
This is the enforcement to see that the labels and the representations that Mrs. America
goes in the store and reads are true.
And the Federal Trade Commission is against price fixing on any kind of basis feeling that
is that right?
That's right sir, that's the law of the lands.
Supreme God said price fixing is illegal per se and we enforce that.
Well ladies and gentlemen I know you have enjoyed seeing and hearing from the chairman
of the Federal Trade Commission, a great Tennessee and from Nashville, who is one of the finest
public servants that we have in the Federal Government today.
That's all for now until next time.
Goodbye.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, we are very proud and have volunteered
state on the part that many of our distinguished citizens are playing in the Federal Government
at the present time.
We have as you know a citizen, Rand Dixon, who is chairman of the Federal Trade Commission,
one of the most important regulatory agencies in Washington.
Also Joe Svetler, who had a long and fine record with the Tennessee Valley Authority, is
chairman of the old powerful Federal Power Commission that has to do with fixing gas rates
and other matters of that kind.
We are proud of the fact that they are doing very good jobs in their respective positions.
But I know that all of you were related as I was when a few weeks ago President Kennedy
announced the appointment of William Henry of Memphis, Tennessee, to be chairman of the
Federal Communications Commission.
This is a most important agency in Washington.
We are honored to have Bill Henry of Memphis with us on this occasion and Bill Amp had
introduced you to the listeners and viewers of this good television station.
Thank you very much.
I am pleased to be here for my first time.
For your information you can see that Mr. Henry is a very young man, of course both
others are.
Young, I said he came from Memphis where he was practicing law as one of the leading young
attorneys of that city.
He graduated at Yale University of Yale with its AB degree and came down to Vanderbilt
to get his law degree as LLB.
He was very active in the last campaign during a great job and he has made a fine impression
in Washington among people in the broadcasting industry and others that he has had an opportunity
of being associated with.
So part of the best part about him is that he has a lovely wife Sherry who is very popular
with the ladies in Washington.
He has daughter Elizabeth VI and Sherry III and you have a...
Don't leave out junior.
We have a two-year-old son.
We have a two-year-old William Junior.
Right.
A very fine family.
That picture was in Washington, it was just a few days ago.
Bill, how you like being in Washington and tell us something about the Federal Communications
Commission?
Well, I like it very much and I think the reason I like it is because I like my job so much.
It's fascinating, challenging work.
Well, what is the most important job about the Federal Communications Commission?
Well, we have a lot of them.
We have set up to regulate not only the broadcasting industry, radio and television but also telephone,
telegraph, international communications.
I think perhaps the Minnesota elements repay for our phone rates.
We have to fix interstate phone rates, telegraph rates, overseas cables, rates and so on.
I think our most important job at the moment is to implement the communications satellite
bill that was passed last year by the Congress to see that gets off the ground properly and
that it integrates properly with the rest of the countries in the world.
So that we can truly have an international space communication satellite.
That's right.
I think I hope you consider some of the good amendments that some of us offered to the
bill when we had it up.
We consider all of those.
It's extremely important now because it's a unique thing.
It's never...
Tell us something about it.
We talked about it on the floor, the Senate for weeks and weeks and weeks at Interim
but tell us something about space communication satellites.
We could take up the whole program with that.
Briefly, it's a unique combination of business enterprise and government regulation.
It's 50% owned by the so-called Common Carriers which would include AT&T, IT&T, RCA and so on
right communication carriers and 50% by the public.
And then it's regulated thoroughly by the FCC.
We established the rates.
We decided where the ground stations will be, what type they'll be, whether the corporation
will own them or whether they'll lease them and so on.
And the corporation itself has the job of putting the orbiting satellites into operation
and the dealing with all of the foreign countries that they must deal with to interconnect over
there.
So all in all, it's a most challenging job that we have in front of us.
The communication satellite is put up by NASA by a rocket.
Some of, I believe, the Pleasant ones or six or 700 miles high has been proposed to
UND in orbit 22,000 miles hasn't it, 23?
The signal is sent and then it's from here then sent back to a ground station in England
so that people can talk back and forth.
Television can be sent by way of the satellite.
The idea is to bring the world closer together to make it easier to communicate.
And that will be the way of communication in the years to come.
I don't think there's any doubt about that.
The problem is to, it's extremely expensive to get a satellite system in operation.
And that's why it's got to be so carefully watched and guided so that it can be done
in a practical manner.
But even in this nation, as between Washington and San Francisco or Washington and Hawaii
or Alaska, communication satellite can be used rather than the regular telephone lines
can't they?
They can, of course, it's not operational yet.
And many of the companies are going ahead and putting in the regular cables.
So it's got to be all tied in together and it's just tying in and coordination that
really makes it the job that it is.
Do you think it will be operational?
Well I tried to say some people say it will be in 1970 or so, some people say it will
be in the mid-60s.
Of course, we all hope that it will be as soon as possible but not oversold and put
up before it's really ready.
There will have to be a number of satellites in order to have communications available
for all parts of the world at the same time.
You can't have just one or two up because if one goes out then you've lost communications
and you've gotten a real system at all.
Well, are you, the FCC and others talking with the British and the French and the Germans
and even the Russians about Johnny and the program?
That's one of the jobs that the corporation satellite itself is now doing.
We at the FCC and we are using our good offices to put them together and to help them.
But they are in the process now talking with the Canadians and I think they plan to go
Europe very shortly and talk to the British post office and the offices on the continent.
And then there will be a meeting I believe at the end of this year, the reference to the
assignment of channels in Geneva.
Then it's in January, it's in Geneva in October.
That will go into the allocation of all the frequencies for all purposes that will be used
in space.
Well, that's all very interesting and that in itself is a big job.
How many members of the FCC are there?
Well, there's seven commissioners.
Seven commissioners, one of whom is Chairman.
Then you have quite a staff, but we in the Congress never give you quite enough money
to do it.
Well, we never get enough money but on the other hand, we are trying very hard to abide
by the president's order which he issued some time ago saying to try to let the president
personnel do the extra jobs instead of hiring extra men and try to get along on the same
budget.
Well, you have a charge of program programming of television and radio.
What's the FCC's concern about programming at the present time?
Well, programming, of course, is the end product of broadcasting and therefore we must be concerned
with it since we are required to see that television radio operate in the public interest.
It's a very fine line, however, between regulation on our part in the public interest and in
no censorship provisions of the First Amendment and Section 326 of the Communications Act,
we operate somewhere in between and we are concerned primarily with the overall operations
of the stations in the public interest.
What I mean concern at the moment is to see that the programs which the people can listen
to and can pick from and choose from is a variety of subjects, not just the same old thing
every night or every weekend and I think they could stand some improvement around those
minds.
Yeah, well, I had the flu here a while back and I was in bed and seemed to me about the
programs I could find would be to shoot them up programs, the violent programs, while
some of my enjoy do.
Of course, again, you got problem censorship, but I do know that you're interested in
trying to get television stations to have more public service programs more.
Well, the reason that we are is because I think there are a lot of people who feel that
they should be more and that's our job after all is to see that what they get, what they
feel, what the people feel there is a need and an interest in.
And then how about the programs that are the educational channels?
Do they come under your supervision?
Yes, we have to, we license not only the commercial broadcasts but also the educational
television stations.
How are they going along?
I've been very interested in that.
Well, they are progressing pretty well.
There's been a great deal of recent interest in educational television.
With the passage last year by the Congress of authority for the federal government to
provide matching funds to states for educational television facilities.
A lot of the states have now applied for networks.
We must issue the licenses for those educational networks.
The whole thing is developing, I think, very well.
And it's interesting, I think, your audience will be interested in the fact that we believe
some of us do it anyway, that the more educational television succeeds, the more it gets an interest
in the community and people begin to look at it and enjoy it, it will upgrade all television.
The commercial television will then have some competition will better itself.
Commercial television then have programs like we're putting on very educational, struck
by people.
How many educational channels do we have or stations do we have in Tennessee?
I don't know, offhand, I think the Tennessee legislature, so I'm not mistaken, just passed
the law authorizing the proper state authority to petition the FCC for some channels looking
towards the state in-school network.
There's some in-school, there's some out-of-school.
The one in Memphis I do know was one of the early television stations, and of course
I think it can be far of that.
And we have one in Nashville, I believe.
Very soon.
And we have one in Nashville too, yes.
I heard a ton of these, the Tennessee stations doing generally, I think we have some
modified television, I'd rather.
Well, I haven't heard any complaints, and so I can assume that they're doing well.
You mean, if they won't do well, you'd be hearing complaints.
Well, hopefully we would, yes.
Well, what is the public's rule in broadcasting?
Well, that points it up.
The public's rule, as I see it, is to let the stations know what they like, what they
don't like, and when they're interested in not being served.
And I think one of our big jobs is to try to get across to the public that they do have
a role in what's put on.
We're set up by law to try to get the stations to put on what they want.
And I think it's a good combination.
The more they would be interested in it, the more they would let us know about it.
And I think the better they'd be served.
In other words, are you like to have suggestions from the public, what kind of programs they
like?
Well, I think it's more important that they tell that to the broadcasters, and if they have
general suggestions about lack of variety, or that programs they like are not at the right
time, or things like that, they're all helpful.
As we can't, as I say, we can never get into specific programs because of the censorship
provision.
And rightly so.
And there must be commercials in order for the television radio stations to make money,
which is, come out even.
And I don't have all of these very, very loud commercials.
Well, we've had a lot of complaints about that, and we're looking into it.
It's a tough question because it's a subjective thing.
What is loud to one person may be a little bit different to another, and the problem is
measuring it.
But we're hopeful, and I think we'll get out of rule on a chart.
Well, Bill Henry, I want to thank you for coming and being with us, and we are
very proud of you.
Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
Let's see you again later on.
Ladies and gentlemen, first I want to thank this station for carrying this program as a
public service.
We will bring you news from Washington from time to time and interview outstanding personalities
in our nation's capital.
We will appreciate any suggestions that you make from time to time about the subject matters
to be discussed on these programs.
I'm very happy on this, the first program of the year, to have with us in the studio
is our guest, one of the most brilliant soldier statesmen of this country and indeed of
the world.
With a possible exception of the late President Eisenhower, I do not think in recent years
we have any person who has had such a brilliant military and civilian life as General Larris
Northstead.
General Northstead, it's wonderful to have you on this program with us and talk with you.
General Northstead, as you know, was the Supreme Commander Allied Command Europe from 1952
until he retired the 1st of December this year and he was also commander of the United
States Forces in Europe.
I can say of my own knowledge because I have been very interested in him and of course
in the strength and building of NATO throughout the years that he has done a remarkable job
in bringing together the might and strength of the 15 NATO countries.
I think General Northstead that Nancy and I first got to know you early in the 1940s when
you were probably a major.
I guess true Senator.
I think that perhaps 42 or 43 something about that time I would like to say how much this
thesis made this opportunity to appear on this program with you not only because it
gives me an opportunity with you to speak to an important segment of the American people
but it also gives me the chance to express to them the great sense of gratitude that
I feel toward you for the very active part.
You have played over these last many years now in furthering the cause of the Atlantic
Alliance and in supporting NATO.
I remember seeing you and hearing your very forceful presentations at the NATO Parliamentary
and conferences for instance, in particular this year when under your leadership it's
very strong resolution supporting the Atlantic community, the Atlantic Alliance and NATO
was adopted by the NATO parliamentarians.
So I'm delighted to have you.
Well thank you.
Thank you, Larus.
Listeners, we were seeing this program, of course at the NATO Parliamentarians have a meeting
every year in Paris in November.
Part of that meeting we have an opportunity of hearing General Northstead, visiting him
at shape and he always receives this and has been over the years very, very highly respected
by the military and the civilian leaders, the political leaders of all of the nations
of Europe and of North American.
General Northstead, we were talking about your original career, you were a lieutenant or
major back in the forties then you got to be a Brigadier General, you ended the wars
in major general and you went from there to obviously a full, full, full, full, full,
well that's an unfortunate expression I think.
When you took over as Supreme Commander in 1952 many of us had a feeling that our Allied
strength was not sufficient to protect Europe, that we were purchased the week.
How have things progressed since during the 10 years that you were Supreme Commander?
Well I think that the progress is, it's been very considerable not because of anything
that I have done but because of the support that has been given to the program by all
of the countries of the alliance and I must say the particularly by this country, the United
States.
We must remember that other countries and all of the other countries of the alliance have
made very major contributions.
It was set at the time of my predecessor, I think he, as a matter of fact, he said it when
he replied to a question of what the Russians need, moved the channel, the answer was
shoes.
I must say that in the end of 1962, beginning in 1963 the forces have grown and have been
organized and are so equipped and deployed that they must be regarded as a very significant,
a very significant factor both in the deterrent that is in the prevention of war but also a significant
to force a factor for the defense and the vital part of the free world should this become
necessary.
General Norstead, you spoke of your predecessor, your immediate predecessor was General Grant
for I believe and before him was Ridgeway and the first Supreme Allied commander was General
Eisenhower's at the correct, that's correct, that's correct.
It's very hard to contemplate the great, to realize the tremendous job of bringing together
the armed forces of 15 nations speaking different languages, that's been your job and
you've done it remarkably.
Thank you very much.
How do you feel that the NATO forces are, are we in a position to defend ourselves or
to defend Western Europe against the Soviet Union and just war?
I think Senator that, well I must freely acknowledge shortages, certain deficiencies within
the alliance.
The same time we must recognize that very real strength has been built up, real strength
in the sense of divisions, of squadrons, of ships, real strength in terms of weapons,
conventional and nuclear.
In addition to that we've organized so that we can direct these forces.
I'm sometimes impressed, perhaps almost depressed, by our constant criticism of ourselves.
We were always talking about our weakness.
I think it's well as necessary for us to be aware of our weakness.
The same time we must also realize our strengths, we not have not only military strength.
We must remember that because of the action that we've taken, the determination that our
countries, including this great country, have shown and facing up to the threat that we've
achieved great strength in many forms.
For instance, the one thing that you were very familiar with, from your work with NATO and
with the parliamentarians, which you have contributed, is the unity of the alliance, which I feel
at this time is very, very important.
I'm going to go on for just one more minute.
You have the news of disagreements, divisions, of different views, particularly now because
we've had some notable statements by General De Gaulle, by Chancellor Abnaur, and by Prime
Minister McMillan in recent weeks.
But we shouldn't let these differences of opinion, which I think are natural between free
countries.
We shouldn't let them, these differences obscure the fact.
But at time of crisis, such as the crisis of Cuba, all of these countries supported and
supported promptly the position of the United States without equivocation and in the positive,
most positive possible terms.
This was really a proof of unity.
When unity really counted, and this is the record of the alliance, when unity really counts,
it has always been here, and I'm confident this could continue.
And it's always been there in the case of Berlin.
It's always been there in case of Berlin.
Well, I was highly pleased that the last NATO parliamentarians conference only issue a
Berlin and Cuba with past strong resolutions without a dissenting voice, as you have said.
And I think undoubtedly that had a great deal to do with Mr. Krukshire pulling back
in connection with Cuba.
There's no question about it.
This is demonstration of unity.
I've been working on the European side and you have been working with the Atlantic Alliance,
so I'm particularly aware of that.
See, alliance, the NATO countries, the unity of the NATO countries, but you add to that
the quite remarkable unity at that particular time of the American states, the countries
of North and South America.
Together, this must have been a formidable force in support of the United States in this
particular instance.
Down in Australia, of course, the largest contribution to the NATO armed forces has been made
by the United States.
But other nations do make substantial contributions.
Of course, a very substantial, and I would point out that it's awfully hard to measure
precisely the contributions.
The Germans, for instance, Federal Republic of Germany is coming up and making a very
great contribution, for instance.
They've committed to us, I think, 11 divisions at the moment, and remember that they're
all deployed in the front line because Germany happens to be in the front line.
They also have given us very substantial air forces and very substantial naval forces.
So their contribution is very substantial.
All of the countries, all of the countries, are making very considerable contributions.
I might, when I was in command, have hoped that some of them might have done a little
more, a little faster, in fact, before a few harnessed I did.
But I still, at the same time, was recognized that they all, every one of them, is making
a very substantial contribution.
And these contributions added to that of the United States, has created a force, a factor
of major significance in our time.
Yes.
Well, General Norse did, how about the De Gaulle, Idenar, PAC, and the disagreement between
De Gaulle and, like, Millen over the common market?
I think we, you see, what do you think these things are going to work out eventually?
I think we have one case here of, talking about Paris and Bonne, the Adenauer, and De Gaulle,
we have an example, I think, of cohesion, of a greater cohesion, and perhaps in the case
of the UK, of relationship between De Gaulle and the Millen at this particular point, on
the question of the common market, it appears, and I emphasize the fact it appears, to be
evidence of some division.
From the standpoint of the first, that is the German-French relationship, I think this
is something that we all should applaud and should approve, because there has been, as we
all know, this historical enmity between these two countries, which, for now, for hundreds
of years, has caused wars, has caused wars.
The purpose of these two men, and I know from talking to the two men, has been to bury
this particular hatchet for all time, and this clearly is a contribution to this, and
for that reason, I think it is the greatest possible significance.
What springs from this, no one knows, but I would hope that there would be a very close
relationship, a relationship of growing, of friendliness, it's very friendly at the present
time, and that this, in turn, will contribute to understanding and to unity within Europe
and us within the West.
I am not willing at this time to be too pessimistic about the relationship between France and England,
for instance, the United Kingdom on the question of the common market.
I personally feel that the larger format of the seven countries, that is, including
the UK, is a sounder, more viable arrangement than six, and I would certainly hope that
conditions would permit the introduction of the United Kingdom into that body.
Finally, I pursue this as just one second longer, Senator, something that, and say something
that I know that is important to you, that it's important that we have these smaller
groupings for specific purpose, such as this economic purpose, in this economic community.
But the real pattern of the future is something that you and I have both supported, and that
is the full pattern of the Atlantic community.
This must remain our objective, because this is the way of peace, and this is the way of
prosperity for all people.
Well, I certainly wish we could go on longer, because this is very interesting talking
with you.
General Norse Stead is a leaving government.
He's going to be vice president of Owing's Corning Fabbard-Las Corporation and president
of their International Division.
We hope you well in your suit and private life, and we want you to come to Tennessee
to visit us sometime.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much, Senator.